 am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest
demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation.
Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the
Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of
Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to
end the long night of their captivity.
But 100 years later, the Negro still is not free. There are those who are asking the devotees of Civil
Rights: “When will you be satisfied?” We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the
unspeakable horrors of police brutality. We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of
their selfhood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating “For whites only.” No, no we are not satisfied,
and we will not be satisfied until “justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream.”
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, sons of former slaves and the sons of former
slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood.
I have a dream that one day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice,
sweltering with the heat of oppression, be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by
the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips
dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, one day right down in Alabama little black
boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and
brothers. I have a dream today.
I have a dream that one day “every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low,
the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the
Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together.”
This is our hope, this is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith, we will be able to hew
out of the mountain of despair, a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the
jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith we will be able
to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom
together, knowing that we will be free one day. This will be the day. This will be the day when all of
God’s children will be able to sing with new meaning:
My country, ‘tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing.
Land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrim’s pride,
From every mountainside, let freedom ring!
And if America is to be a great nation, this must become true.
So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York.
Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania.
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado.
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California.
But not only that. Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia.
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee.
Let freedom ring from every hill and molehill of Mississippi.
From every mountainside, let freedom ring.
And when this happens, when we allow freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every
hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s children,
black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and
sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual:
Free at last! Free at last!
Thank God Almighty, we are free at last.